Update to syntax breakdown (#258)
ietf-wg-jsonpath/draft-ietf-jsonpath-base: draft-ietf-jsonpath-base.md

Singular Path:
: A JSONPath expression built from selectors which each select at most one node.

//PICKER//:

> : A single item within a bracketed (`[]`) value selector that identifies which values

Author: Missed 👍

> : A single item within a bracketed (`[]`) child selector that identifies which values

Reviewer: Attempting to unify the terminology:
```suggestion
: A single item within a bracketed (`[]`) child selector that matches the values which
```

Within the JSONPath expression, the abstract name `$` is used to refer
to the *root node* of the argument, i.e., to the argument as a whole.

JSONPath expressions primarily use the *bracket notation*

~~~~
$['store']['book'][0]['title']
~~~~

but may also use the shorthand *dot notation*

~~~~
$.store.book[0].title
~~~~

to build paths that are input to a JSONPath implementation.
Generally, the dot notation is preferred for most applications.
Mixing these syntaxes within a single path is also useful.

> 

Author: We definitely need some statement about allowing these syntaxes to be mixed.  Otherwise people might get the impression that they may only use one or the other (i.e. all dot syntax or all bracket syntax).

I don't mind the statement about preference, but I thought it would be good for general guidance.

> 

Reviewer: Ok, it's an editorial change rather than something substantive.

JSONPath allows the wildcard symbol `*` to select any member of an
object or any element of an array ({{wildcard}}).

> The descendant selector (which starts with `..`) recursively selects some or all of the descendants ({{descendant-selectors}}) of a node.

Author: Enumerating the descendants is definitely done recursively.  This is how we get descendants of descendants until there are no more descendants.  An implementation doesn't need to process these recursively, but it _is_ recursive by its very nature.

> but once we are dealing with the descendants, it's just a list of nodes and no further recursion need be involved.

I don't understand how this is relevant.  This is after the recursive definition applies.

> The descendant selector (which starts with `..`) recursively selects some or all of the descendants ({{descendant-selectors}}) of a node.

Reviewer: The phrase "select some or all of the descendants" is sufficient without needing to talk about recursively selecting.

> The descendant selector (which starts with `..`) recursively selects some or all of the descendants ({{descendant-selectors}}) of a node.

Author: It's only sufficient if we define "descendants" to mean all of them down the tree (which apparently we have, and recursively)

(line 222)
```
Children (of a node):
: If the node is an array, each of its elements,
  or if the node is an object, each of its member values (but not its
  member names). If the node is neither an array nor an object, it has no children.

Descendants (of a node):
: The children of the node, together with the children of its children, and so forth
  recursively. More formally, the descendants relation between nodes is the transitive
  closure of the children relation.
```

I can change this here since "descendants" is defined as such.

{{tbl-overview}} provides a quick overview of the JSONPath syntax elements.

| JSONPath          | Description                                                                                                               |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `$`                 | [root node selector](#root-selector)                                                                                    |

> | `[*]`               | [wildcard selector](#wildcard): selects all immediate descendants of objects and arrays                                 |

Author: Combined with [your comment above](https://github.com/ietf-wg-jsonpath/draft-ietf-jsonpath-base/pull/258#discussion_r967636860), I would be open to defining "children" as the set of immediate object members or array elements, and "descendants" as the set of intermediate and leaf nodes contained within the subtree of the node excluding the node itself.  (wording can be massaged).

The point is that we would need explicit definitions for these.

> | `[*]`               | [wildcard selector](#wildcard): selects all immediate descendants of objects and arrays                                 |

Reviewer: We already define the terms "children" and "descendants" in the terminology section.

| `..[*]`             | [descendant wildcard selector](#descendant-selectors): recursive version of the wildcard selector                       |

> | `[<//PICKERS//>]`   | [child selector](#child-selector) for JSON objects and arrays; contains one or more clauses, separated by commas        |

Author: What it selects is based on the `//PICKERS//` it contains.  If you'd like to suggest something generic, please feel free.

| `..[<//PICKERS//>]` | [descendant child selector](#descendant-selectors): recursive version of the value selector                             |
| `'name'`            | [name //PICKER//](#name-//PICKER//): index current node as an object                                                    |
| `3`                 | [index //PICKER//](#index-//PICKER//): index current node as an array (from 0)                                          |
| `0:100:5`           | [array slice //PICKER//](#slice): start:end:step for arrays                                                             |
| `?<expr>`           | [filter //PICKER//](#filter-//PICKER//): selection based on expressions by applying the expression to each child node   |

> | `@`                 | [current node selector](#filter-//PICKER//) (valid only within filter clauses)                                          |

Author: Missed 👍

{{tbl-overview}} provides a quick overview of the JSONPath syntax elements.

| JSONPath          | Description                                                                                                               |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `$`                 | [root node selector](#root-selector)                                                                                    |
| `[*]`               | [wildcard selector](#wildcard): selects all immediate descendants of objects and arrays                                 |
| `..[*]`             | [descendant wildcard selector](#descendant-selectors): recursive version of the wildcard selector                       |
| `[<//PICKERS//>]`   | [child selector](#child-selector) for JSON objects and arrays; contains one or more clauses, separated by commas        |

> | `..[<//PICKERS//>]` | [descendant child selector](#descendant-selectors): recursive version of the value selector                             |

Author: "Descendent child selector" distinguishes this from "descendant wildcard selector" and associates it with "child selector."  I think this distinction is appropriate.  Later, when we merge your PR that allows wildcard to be included as just another item in the list, we can change this.  For now, it's needed.

In what follows, the semantics of each selector are defined for each type
of node.

## __PICKERS__

__PICKERS__ are defined solely within the context of the [child selector](#child-selector).
A __PICKER__ outside of a child selector is invalid.

A __PICKER__ identifies, or matches, child elements to be selected for the
resulting nodelist.

Each type of __PICKER__ functions differently and may be defined to operate on only
objects, only arrays, or both.

The relationship between a __PICKER__ and the child selector that contains it
is further defined in the child selector section below.

### Name __PICKER__ {#name-__PICKER__}

#### Syntax {#syntax-name}
{: unnumbered}

> A name __PICKER__ `'<name>'` matches at most one object member value.

Reviewer: This section doesn't define what a name __PICKER__ is. I think it would be helpful to define a __PICKER__ in the ABNF and refer to it in the English.

Author: We already have a definition for a __PICKER__ in general.  This is the "name" variant.  The text explains what it does.  I'm not sure I understand what you're getting at.

Reviewer: It was just an editorial comment. The text doesn't give any indication of the relationship between the name __PICKER__ and `quoted-member-name` (which is used in the following text and the ABNF without any reference to the name __PICKER__).

Author: What about the paragraph that immediately follows the text you commented on?

> Applying the `quoted-member-name` to an object value in its input nodelist, its string is required to match the corresponding member value. In contrast to JSON, the JSONPath syntax allows strings to be enclosed in _single_ or _double_ quotes.

Reviewer: There just needs to be an explicit statement saying that `quoted-member-name` represents a name *picker. This needs to be reflected in the ABNF too.

Reviewer: This was fixed, thanks.

A JSONPath query consists of a sequence of selectors. Valid selectors are

  * Root selector `$` (used at the start of a query and in expressions)
  * Wildcard selector `[*]`
  * Child selector `[<//PICKERS//>]`, where `<//PICKERS//>` is one or more of

>     several //PICKER// types, which identify the nodes to select,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    several //PICKER// types, which match the nodes to select,
```

    delineated by commas
  * Current item selector `@` (only valid in filter expressions)

The wildcard and value selectors can be made to recursively select values within
nested objects and arrays be prefixing them with `..` turning them into

  * Descendant wildcard selector `..[*]`

>   * Descendant child selector `..[<//PICKERS//>]`

Author: Again, I think this distinction is needed for now.

#### Examples
{: unnumbered}

JSON:

    {
      "o": {"j": 1, "k": 2},
      "a": [5, 3]
    }

Queries:

| Query | Result | Result Paths | Comment |
| :---: | ------ | :----------: | ------- |
| `$.o[*]` | `1` <br> `2` | `$['o']['j']` <br> `$['o']['k']` | Object values      |
| `$.o[*]` | `2` <br> `1` | `$['o']['k']` <br> `$['o']['j']` | Alternative result |
| `$.a[*]` | `5` <br> `3` | `$['a'][0]` <br> `$['a'][1]`     | Array members      |
{: title="Index wildcard selector examples"}

### Child Selector

#### Syntax
<!-- {: unnumbered} -->

The child selector has the form `[<//PICKERS//>]` where `<//PICKERS//>` is a comma-delimited
collection of one or more //PICKERS//.
Each //PICKER// is defined below.

~~~~ abnf
child-selector  = "[" S list-entry 1*(S "," S list-entry) S "]"

list-entry     =  ( quoted-member-name /
                    element-index      /
                    slice-index /
                    filter
                  )
~~~~

#### Semantics
<!-- {: unnumbered} -->

A child selector operates on objects and arrays only.
It contains a comma-delimited collection of //PICKERS// to indicate which
object members and array elements to selects.

> Each //PICKER// type functions differently and may be defined to operate on only

Reviewer: I think this reads a little better:
```suggestion
Each type of //PICKER// functions differently and may be defined to operate on only
```

objects, only arrays, or both.

> //PICKERS// of different types may be combined within a single value selector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//PICKERS// of different types may be combined within a single child selector.
```

The resulting nodelist of a child selector is the concatenation of
the nodelists from each of its //PICKERS// in the order that the //PICKERS//
appear in the list.
Note that any node selected by more than one //PICKER// is kept
as many times in the nodelist.

#### Name //PICKER//

##### Syntax {#syntax-name}
{: unnumbered}

> A name //PICKER// `'<name>'` addresses at most one object member value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A name //PICKER// `'<name>'` matches at most one object member value.
```

Applying the `quoted-member-name` to an object value in its input nodelist,

> it string is required to select the corresponding member value.

Reviewer: //PICKER// descriptions need to avoid saying that a //PICKER// can _select_ a value, as this confuses //PICKERS// and selectors. I suggest using the term "match".

| `$` | `{"k": "v"}` | `$` | Root node |
{: title="Root selector examples"}

> ### Wildcard Selector {#wildcard}

Author: I'm okay with this.  I'll want to update the table to reflect the section order as well.  I'd like to get others' opinions as well.

> ### Wildcard Selector {#wildcard}

Reviewer: Fair enough, but shuffling the order makes it harder to review the changes.

> ### Wildcard Selector {#wildcard}

Author: Yes, it does.  Let's hold for a secondary PR.

> ### Wildcard Selector {#wildcard}

Reviewer: The order is shuffled as the PR stands. If the order is modified now, the overall diff will shrink and reviewing will be easier.

#### Syntax
{: unnumbered}

The wildcard selector has either the form `[*]` or the shorthand form `.*`.

~~~~ abnf
wild-selector        = (index-wild-selector /
                        dot-wild-selector)
index-wild-selector  = "[" wildcard "]"       ;  asterisk enclosed by brackets
dot-wild-selector    = "." wildcard           ;  dot followed by asterisk
wildcard             = "*"
~~~~

#### Semantics
{: unnumbered}

A `wild-selector`
selects the nodes of all member values of an object as well as of all elements of an

> array.

Author: The current text makes this disctinction.  I don't think I changed this text.

Applying the `wild-selector` to a primitive JSON value (that is,
a number, a string, `true`, `false`, or `null`) selects no node.

The two formats, `index-wild-selector` and `dot-wild-selector`,

> are functionally identical and may be used interchangeably.

Author: Suggestion?  It reads fine to me.

> The two formats, `index-wild-selector` and `dot-wild-selector`,
> are functionally identical and may be used interchangeably.

Reviewer: How about this?
```suggestion
The two formats, `index-wild-selector` and `dot-wild-selector`,
are semantically identical.
```

> are functionally identical and may be used interchangeably.

Author: I think it's worth explicitly stating their interchangeability.

{: title="Index wildcard selector examples"}

### Child Selector

#### Syntax
<!-- {: unnumbered} -->

The child selector has the form `[<//PICKERS//>]` where `<//PICKERS//>` is a comma-delimited
collection of one or more //PICKERS//.
Each //PICKER// is defined below.

~~~~ abnf
child-selector  = "[" S list-entry 1*(S "," S list-entry) S "]"

list-entry     =  ( quoted-member-name /
                    element-index      /
                    slice-index /
                    filter
                  )
~~~~

#### Semantics
<!-- {: unnumbered} -->

A child selector operates on objects and arrays only.
It contains a comma-delimited collection of //PICKERS// to indicate which
object members and array elements to selects.

Each //PICKER// type functions differently and may be defined to operate on only
objects, only arrays, or both.

//PICKERS// of different types may be combined within a single value selector.

The resulting nodelist of a child selector is the concatenation of
the nodelists from each of its //PICKERS// in the order that the //PICKERS//
appear in the list.
Note that any node selected in more than one of the selector entries is kept
as many times in the nodelist.

> 

Reviewer: This text confuses //PICKERS// and selectors. //PICKERS// don't produce nodelists unless they are used in a selector.

("the selector entries" is vestigial and needs to adopt similar language to the previous sentence, once that is ironed out.)

For me, the viability of this proposal hinges on two things:
* how cleanly/clearly the selector-//PICKERS// interface can be defined,
* how cleanly/clearly the general semantics of //PICKERS// can be defined (so far these semantics are only hinted),
* the readability of the resultant document structure for users (as well as implementers).

Author: I think "selector entries" is just meant to be "//PICKERS//" here.

The resulting nodelist of a child selector is the concatenation of
the nodelists from each of its //PICKERS// in the order that the //PICKERS//

> appear in the list.

Author: > The resulting nodelist of a child selector with a single //PICKER// applied to a value is the collection of children of the value matched by the //PICKER//.

I don't think it's necessary to call out operation of the selector with a single child.

> If the value is an array, the resultant nodelist is in array order. If the value is an object, the order of the resultant nodelist is not stipulated, since JSON objects are unordered.

This is addressed in the *pickers that can select multiple values (slice & filter).  I don't think it makes sense outside of that context.  The operation here isn't precisely value selection; it's concatenating the results of the *pickers.

> appear in the list.

Reviewer: > > The resulting nodelist of a child selector with a single //PICKER// applied to a value is the collection of children of the value matched by the //PICKER//.
> 
> I don't think it's necessary to call out operation of the selector with a single *picker.

I don't see how the behaviour is well defined if we leave this out. It seems to me that the spec is silent on this matter.

> 
> > If the value is an array, the resultant nodelist is in array order. If the value is an object, the order of the resultant nodelist is not stipulated, since JSON objects are unordered.
> 
> This is addressed in the *pickers that can select multiple values (slice & filter). I don't think it makes sense outside of that context. The operation here isn't precisely value selection; it's concatenating the results of the *pickers.

I checked the text of the filter *picker and it doesn't specify the result order. It talks about iterating, but doesn't tie down the order of iteration. (Also I, like @goessner, would prefer to avoid implementation terms like iteration.)

> appear in the list.

Author: > I don't see how the behaviour is well defined if we leave this out. It seems to me that the spec is silent on this matter.

A single item is just a list of length one.  That's the basis of this PR.  Since how a list of *pickers works is defined, a single *picker is inherently defined.

> I checked the text of the filter *picker and it doesn't specify the result order. It talks about iterating, but doesn't tie down the order of iteration.

Okay.  I prefer to add it there rather than in the selector because not all *pickers iterate, only the filter one does.

> Also I, like @goessner, would prefer to avoid implementation terms like iteration.

We need some description of going over each item in turn.  How else would you say this aside from "iterate"?

> appear in the list.

Reviewer: > > I don't see how the behaviour is well defined if we leave this out. It seems to me that the spec is silent on this matter.
> 
> A single item is just a list of length one. That's the basis of this PR. Since how a list of *pickers works is defined, a single *picker is inherently defined.

Not so, I'm afraid. Please could you point me to the text which says how a selector with a single *picker operates.

> 
> > I checked the text of the filter *picker and it doesn't specify the result order. It talks about iterating, but doesn't tie down the order of iteration.
> 
> Okay. I prefer to add it there rather than in the selector because not all *pickers iterate, only the filter one does.
> 
> > Also I, like @goessner, would prefer to avoid implementation terms like iteration.
> 
> We need some description of going over each item in turn. How else would you say this aside from "iterate"?

We can use phrases like "the *picker matches certain values in the array". The spec only needs to say what the result is, not how the result is arrived at.

Note that any node selected by more than one //PICKER// is kept

> as many times in the nodelist.

Reviewer: Saying that a //PICKER// selects something confuses //PICKERS// and selectors. How about this?
```suggestion
Note that any node matched by more than one //PICKER// is kept
as many times in the nodelist.
```

Author: "Matches" (or maybe "identifies") is fine.

| \\uXXXX            | U+XXXX              | unicode character           |
{: title="Escape Sequence Replacements" cols="c c"}

A `dotted-member-name` string is converted to a member name by removing
the initial dot.

The name //PICKER// applied to an object

> selects the node of the corresponding member value from it, if and only if that object has a member with that name.

Reviewer: //PICKER// descriptions need to avoid saying that a //PICKER// can _select_ a value, as this confuses //PICKERS// and selectors.

| :---: | ------ | :----------: | ------- |
| `$.o['j j']['k.k']`   | `3` | `$['o']['j j']['k.k']`      | Named value in nested object      |
| `$.o["j j"]["k.k"]`   | `3` | `$['o']['j j']['k.k']`      | Named value in nested object      |
| `$["'"]["@"]` | `2` | `$['\'']['@']` | Unusual member names
| `$.j`   | `{"k": 3}` | `$['j']`      | Named value of an object      |
| `$.j.k` | `3`        | `$['j']['k']` | Named value in nested object  |
{: title="Name //PICKER// examples"}

#### Index //PICKER//

##### Syntax {#syntax-index}
{: unnumbered}

> An index //PICKER// `<index>` addresses at most one array element value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An index //PICKER// `<index>` matches at most one array element value.
```

Author: "Addresses" was the existing text.

Nothing is selected, and it is not an error, if the index lies outside the range of the array. Nothing is selected from a value that is not an array.

A negative `element-index` counts from the array end.
For example, selector `-1` selects the last and selector `-2` selects the penultimate element of an array with at least two elements.
As with non-negative indexes, it is not an error if such an element does
not exist; this simply means that no element is selected.

##### Examples
{: unnumbered}

<!-- EDITING NOTE: There are non-breaking spaces here between j and j -->
<!-- i.e., j j and not j j -->

JSON:

    {
      "o": {"j j": {"k.k": 3}},
      "a": ["a","b"],
      "'": {"@": 2}
    }

Queries:

| Query | Result | Result Paths | Comment |
| :---: | ------ | :----------: | ------- |
| `$.a[1]`   | `"b"` | `$['a'][1]`      | Member of array      |
| `$.a[-2]`   | `"a"` | `$['a'][0]`      | Member of array, from the end      |
{: title="Index //PICKER// examples"}

#### Array Slice //PICKER// {#slice}

##### Syntax
{: unnumbered}

The array slice //PICKER// has the form `<start>:<end>:<step>`.

> It selects elements from arrays starting at index `<start>`, ending at — but

Reviewer: //PICKER// descriptions need to avoid saying that a //PICKER// can _select_ a value, as this confuses //PICKERS// and selectors.

Author: Seriously, are you going to type this out for every instance you see this?

| `$[1:5:2]` | `"b"` <br> `"d"` | `$[1]` <br> `$[3]` | Slice with step 2 |
| `$[5:1:-2]` | `"f"` <br> `"d"` | `$[5]` <br> `$[3]` | Slice with negative step |
| `$[::-1]` | `"g"` <br> `"f"` <br> `"e"` <br> `"d"` <br> `"c"` <br> `"b"` <br> `"a"` | `$[6]` <br> `$[5]` <br> `$[4]` <br> `$[3]` <br> `$[2]` <br> `$[1]` <br> `$[0]` | Slice in reverse order |
{: title="Array slice //PICKER// examples"}

#### Filter //PICKER//

##### Syntax
{: unnumbered}

> The filter //PICKER// has the form `?<expr>`. It works via iterating over structured values, i.e. arrays and objects.

Reviewer: No. A _selector_ works by iterating over structured values. A //PICKER// matches, or fails to match, each of the values in the iteration in turn. //PICKER// descriptions need to avoid saying that a //PICKER// can _select_ a value, as this confuses //PICKERS// and selectors.

Author: I disagree.

- `1` matches specifically the second item of an array
- `name` matches specifically the "name" property of an object
- `?<expr>` iterates over all of the items and matches on values that make `<expr>` return true

The _selector_ doesn't iterate over the child values.

> //PICKER// descriptions need to avoid saying that a //PICKER// can select a value

The above text doesn't say a that a *picker can select a value.

dot-wild-selector    = "." wildcard           ;  dot followed by asterisk
wildcard             = "*"
~~~~

#### Semantics
{: unnumbered}

A `wild-selector` selects the nodes of all children of an object or array.

Applying the `wild-selector` to a primitive JSON value (that is,
a number, a string, `true`, `false`, or `null`) selects no node.

The two formats, `index-wild-selector` and `dot-wild-selector`,
are functionally identical and may be used interchangeably.

#### Examples
{: unnumbered}

JSON:

    {
      "o": {"j": 1, "k": 2},
      "a": [5, 3]
    }

Queries:

| Query | Result | Result Paths | Comment |
| :---: | ------ | :----------: | ------- |
| `$.o[*]` | `1` <br> `2` | `$['o']['j']` <br> `$['o']['k']` | Object values      |
| `$.o[*]` | `2` <br> `1` | `$['o']['k']` <br> `$['o']['j']` | Alternative result |
| `$.a[*]` | `5` <br> `3` | `$['a'][0]` <br> `$['a'][1]`     | Array members      |
{: title="Index wildcard selector examples"}

### Child Selector

#### Syntax
{: unnumbered}

The child selector has the form `[<__PICKERS__>]` where `<__PICKERS__>` is a comma-delimited
collection of one or more __PICKERS__.

> Each __PICKER__ is defined below.

Reviewer: Since the *pickers and their ABNF as now defined above, why not delete this sentence?
```suggestion
```

|  1  | Logical OR | `¦¦`   |
{: title="Filter expression operator precedence" }

##### Semantics
{: unnumbered}

> The filter //PICKER// works with arrays and objects exclusively. Its result is a list of *zero*, *one*, *multiple* or *all* of their array elements or member values, respectively.

Reviewer: The result of a //PICKER// is not a list. This confuses //PICKERS// and selectors.

Author: As you can see from the diff, I didn't change this text.  I'm not sure how the result being a nodelist confuses *pickers and selectors given that the result of the child selector is exactly the concatenation of the *pickers it contains.

Reviewer: > As you can see from the diff, I didn't change this text.

No, but perhaps you should have. See https://github.com/ietf-wg-jsonpath/draft-ietf-jsonpath-base/pull/258#discussion_r967854964 for why.

> 
> I'm not sure how the result being a nodelist confuses *pickers and selectors given that the result of the child selector is exactly the concatenation of the *pickers it contains.

If the result of a *picker was simply a boolean (match or didn't match), there would be a clearer distinction between selectors and *pickers.

Author: The numeric index *picker `1` doesn't have a boolean result.  It has a value result.  The slice *picker has a set of values as a result.  Similarly, the filter *picker has a set of values as a result.

Saying a *picker has a boolean result may work for filters, but it doesn't work for the other *pickers.  This confuses what a *picker is.

Reviewer: Not necessarily. Option 2 allows other *pickers to function correctly because they can use the name or index of the value as part of their spec.

Applied to other value types, it will select nothing.

A relative path, beginning with `@`, refers to the current array element or member value as the

> filter //PICKER// iterates over the array or object.

Reviewer: No. This is selector language again.

Author: No. Again, *pickers iterate because not all of them need to.

Reviewer 2: I recommend to avoid terms suggesting implementation details (iterating, recursive, ...) altogether.

What about: 'filter //PICKER// visits components of structured values one after another.' ?

Implementers will know very well how to do it.

I like the strict distinction ...

* *pickers *match* values.
* selectors build a *result list* from those.

Reviewer: Without constraining implementations, I think we should define the processing model for how selectors and *pickers work together. I think there is a choice between:

1. a selector presents a single value to a *picker, the *picker matching zero or more children of the value, and the selector builds its resultant node list from the matched children (plus some words about concatenating the node lists together when there is more than one *picker), and
2. a selector presents each child of a value in turn to a *picker along with the value's name (if the value is a child of an object) or index (if the value is a child of an array), the *picker matches the value or doesn't match the value, and the selector builds its resultant node list from the matched children (plus some words about concatenating the node lists together when there is more than one *picker).

I _think_ the behaviour is equivalent in either case. The choice simply influences how each *picker is specified (and how each selector which uses *pickers is specified). I personally favour option 2 because it makes the *picker interface narrower and I think that will make the *picker specs shorter and simpler.

Author: My thinking is in line with the first option.

Suppose we have `$[1]` and the data is an array with 1000 items.  It doesn't make sense to describe the selector as presenting each item to the *picker `1` to get a boolean result to determine whether to include it.

> the *picker matches the value or doesn't match the value

A *picker can't do this from just the value.  The `1` in my example needs the context of position within its parent.  _Filters_ specifically function just on the value, but the others don't.  Thus is wrong to generalize this way.

Reviewer: > My thinking is in line with the first option.
> 
> Suppose we have `$[1]` and the data is an array with 1000 items. It doesn't make sense to describe the selector as presenting each item to the *picker `1` to get a boolean result to determine whether to include it.

Why not? This is a specification and doesn't imply that an implementation would do the same.

> 
> > the *picker matches the value or doesn't match the value
> 
> A *picker can't do this from just the value. The `1` in my example needs the context of position within its parent.

That's why option 2 says that the value's name or index is also provided to the *picker.

> _Filters_ specifically function just on the value, but the others don't. Thus is wrong to generalize this way.

Not necessarily. If the value and its name/index is passed to the *picker, that provides enough context for all *pickers. Some may ignore some of these "parameters", but again we are talking about a spec rather than an implementation.

Author: > Why not? This is a specification and doesn't imply that an implementation would do the same.

For the same reason we try not to prescribe implementation: implementors will default to the process described in the spec.  If the spec describes a known bad way to do something, that's bad for implementors.

It just doesn't make sense to have the iteration done at the selector when ONLY ONE *picker actually does any kind of iteration.  Filter is the only picker that iterates over the values.  It's also the only one that depends on the value at all.  All of the others depend on the value's location in relation to its parent.

It's incorrect to describe this behavior holistically because there is no holistic behavior among the *pickers.

You want to define the relationship between selectors and *pickers.  Here you go:

> The child selector selects values identified by the *pickers it contains by concatenating the resulting sets of values from each *picker in the order they appear without removing duplicates.

The *picker identifies which values to select, and the selector "selects" them.  Yeah, the child selector is little more than a container for *pickers.  That's okay.  It doesn't have to do anything.

wildcard             = "*"
~~~~

#### Semantics
{: unnumbered}

A `wild-selector` selects the nodes of all children of an object or array.

Applying the `wild-selector` to a primitive JSON value (that is,
a number, a string, `true`, `false`, or `null`) selects no node.

The two formats, `index-wild-selector` and `dot-wild-selector`,
are functionally identical and may be used interchangeably.

#### Examples
{: unnumbered}

JSON:

    {
      "o": {"j": 1, "k": 2},
      "a": [5, 3]
    }

Queries:

| Query | Result | Result Paths | Comment |
| :---: | ------ | :----------: | ------- |
| `$.o[*]` | `1` <br> `2` | `$['o']['j']` <br> `$['o']['k']` | Object values      |
| `$.o[*]` | `2` <br> `1` | `$['o']['k']` <br> `$['o']['j']` | Alternative result |
| `$.a[*]` | `5` <br> `3` | `$['a'][0]` <br> `$['a'][1]`     | Array members      |
{: title="Index wildcard selector examples"}

### Child Selector

#### Syntax
{: unnumbered}

The child selector has the form `[<__PICKERS__>]` where `<__PICKERS__>` is a comma-delimited
collection of one or more __PICKERS__.
Each __PICKER__ is defined below.

~~~~ abnf
child-selector  = "[" S list-entry 1*(S "," S list-entry) S "]"

> list-entry     =  ( quoted-member-name /

Reviewer: `list-entry` should be tied to __PICKER__ so that the English supports the ABNF. For instance:
```suggestion
PICKER     =  ( quoted-member-name /
```
(where `PICKER` will be replaced by whatever term we choose for __PICKER__).
